
plplot_octave FGA (frequently given answers):


--Make sure that you have octave-2.0.16 or latter, matwrap and perl.
Make sure that you have a correctly installed octave, configured with
--enable-shared and --enable-dl. The command

	ldd `which octave`

should report octave dynamic libs, liboctave.so, libcruft.so and
liboctinterp.so

--If you have problems, please try first to see if you can sucessefully
compile and run the oregonator.cc and hello.cc files in the examples
directory of the Octave distribution. If they don't run, fix first
octave (configure with above options and reinstall).

--If you have a problem with the Tk demos in the plplot distribution, 
probably your Xserver is not secure. Use 'xauth' or rebuild tk without
security. But you don't need Tk (although useful); the default is to
use the Xwindows driver.

--The demos in the plplot_octave distribution should be run in the
extracted directory from plplot_octave, as there are needed script files
in directories misc, demos and PLplot. To run the plplot_octave demos,
you must provide a LOADPATH that start at the current directory; being
there.

--There are problems with `semilogy, semilogx and loglog',

-- there are no such thing as 'replot'. The equivalent, 'plreplot', does
not do what you want. Also, 'title', 'xlabel' and 'ylabel' must be given
*before* the plot command. The general idea is that plot attributes should
be set before plotting the data.

--In hold mode, the first plot defines the viewport, so further plots
don't rescale the axis.

--check that plplot_octave.oct find its shared libs, in case you have
build plplot with shared libs. Try 'ldd ./plplot_octave.oct' and you will
see either a list of needed and founded shared libs, or an error. In
this case, you can specify where to find them using LD_LIBRARY_PATH or
LD_RUN_PATH, or still recompiling plplot_octave.oct with the `-r' flag
to gcc (this might vary with the OS).

--The xwin driver does not respond to deiconify/resize events. This is
a well know misfeature of plplot.

--The xwin driver does not handle exposure events. If your plot window
becomes obscured by other window, then, when you bring it to the front,
(part) of your plot has vanished. Use 'plreplot' to refresh it. If you
are using XFree, at least in version 3.3.3 you can start the Xserver
with the '-wm' option; it will save obscured windows and you don't need
to issue 'plreplot'. Also, the AfterStep window manager has an option
for the same, I think that it is the `SaveUnders' one:
	# Miscellaneous voodoo commands - they may help you, they may not   
	AppsBackingStore
	BackingStore  
	SaveUnders

Please keep reporting problems and how you solve them,

Thanks,

Joao

