This file gives an overview of changes to the cvs of the plplot
documentation project. For some background about that project see README.
Alan W. Irwin (AWI) and Rafael Laboissiere (RL) have been the principal
contributors to this project so far.

2001 February 8: (Just prior to release of 5.0.2) After those fateful words,
AWI worked harder than ever on documentation (some of it with an API
component).  A large source of the additional documentation was all the
files in the doc directory which were from the 1994 latex effort or even
before (rather than 1995 latexinfo effort).  After some consultation with
Maurice these files were transformed (with changes) to DocBook form and were
gradually removed from the cvs as they were superseded by the docbook form.
Sections on devices, driver functions, plrender and metafiles, familying,
interactive output devices, and setting color were added to the advanced
chapter. Chapters on the C and Fortran Language bindings were added and a
vacuous scheme binding chapter was removed. A (short) bibliography chapter
was added as well as chapters on the exclusive (non-common) C and Fortran
api (most of these transferred from the common-api chapter).  The Reference
part of the document (including the Bibliography and all the API chapters)
was put at the back of the document.

2000 November 15: AWI finished documenting the previously undocumented API
functions by lifting the comments from the code source.  Those comments
usually did not include anything about the meaning of the function
parameters so that continued lack of documentation for the parameters is now
marked by "NEEDS DOCUMENTATION" rather than the previous ??? which was
ambiguous.  This occurs about 160 times in api.sgml and needs to be
addressed by the PLplot gurus. Since AWI is not one of those, this marks the
end of AWI's work on the API documentation (but not other kinds of
documentation work).

2000 November 13: AWI moved CHANGES NEWS  (which is the more appropriate
name for this file).  AWI also put information about Cygnus DocBook into
README.developers.

2000 November 12: RL removes "forgot $" bug in configure.  AWI confirms that
the refined configuration system properly checks catalogs again.

2000 November 10: AWI made extensive improvements to all sgml source using
the "aspell" spell-checker.

2000 November 9: AWI converted remaining latexinfo source to cplus.sgml,
tcl.sgml, gui.sgml, perl.sgml, python.sgml, and scheme.sgml. The first two
add a large amount of documentation while the last 4 are simply placeholders
waiting for documenters to get busy.  This completes the conversion of the
1995 latexinfo to DocBook, but there are some possible 1994 latex (as
opposed to latexinfo) appendix files that may be useful enough to convert as
well but which were not included in the 1995 conversion of the documentation
from latex to latexinfo.

2000 November 4 (AWI): extensive changes to Makefile.in plus split
functionality of old README into README plus CHANGES.

2000 November 3 (AWI): Refined configuration so that it worked on both
Debian/potato and RedHat 6.2 (with a workaround for the broken principal
catalog for that system).  Also made extensive changes to
../README.developers.

2000 October 30-31 (RL): Generalized configuration method using autoconf,
configure.in approach.

2000 October 19 (AWI and RL): added the plplot docbook documentation project
to the sourceforge cvs repository at location plplot/doc/docbook-sgml.  The
source was http://www.icp.inpg.fr/~rafael/plplotdoc/src with some additional
files (jatex.cfg and over-under.tex) added later by RL. eps2jpeg.pl and the
Makefile were then modified to make the build work on Debian/potato.

