Blurb::
Bayesian calibration
Description::
Bayesian calibration 
methods in %Dakota take prior information on parameter 
values (in the form of prior distributions) and observational data 
(e.g. from experiments) and produce posterior distributions on the 
parameter values. When the computational simulation is then executed
with samples from the posterior parameter distributions, the 
results that are produced are consistent with ("agree with") the 
experimental data. In the case of calibrating parameters from a 
computational simulation model, we require a "likelihood function" that 
specifies the likelihood of observing a particular observation given 
the model and its associated parameterization. We assume a Gaussian 
likelihood function currently. The algorithms that produce 
the posterior distributions on model parameters are Monte Carlo Markov 
Chain (MCMC) sampling algorithms. MCMC methods require many samples, often 
tens of thousands, so in the case of model calibration, often emulators 
of the computational simulation are used. For more details on the algorithms
underlying the methods, see the %Dakota User's manual. 

We have three Bayesian calibration methods under development in %Dakota: 
one called QUESO, one called DREAM, and one called GPMSA. They are specified with the
\c bayes_calibration \c queso, \c bayes_calibration \c dream, 
or \c bayes_calibration \c gpmsa, respectively. 
The QUESO method uses components from the QUESO library 
(Quantification of Uncertainty for Estimation, Simulation, and 
Optimization) developed at The University of Texas at Austin. 
We are using a DRAM (Delayed Rejected Adaptive Metropolis) algorithm 
for the MCMC sampling from the QUESO library. 
DREAM (DiffeRential Evolution Adaptive
Metropolis) is a method that runs multiple different chains simultaneously 
for global exploration, and automatically tunes the proposal covariance
during the process by a self-adaptive randomized subspace sampling. 
[\cite Vrugt "Vrugt et al. 2009"].
GPMSA (Gaussian Process Models for Simulation Analysis) is 
a code that has been developed at Los Alamos National Laboratory. 
It uses Gaussian process models as part of constructing 
an emulator for the expensive 
computational simulation. GPMSA also has extensive features for 
calibration, such as the capability to include a "model discrepancy" term
and the capability to model functional data such as time series data. 
 
The Bayesian capabilities are under active development.  At this stage, 
the QUESO methods in %Dakota are the most advanced and robust, followed 
by DREAM, followed by GPMSA, which is in a very prototype form at this time. 
Note that as of Dakota 6.2, the field data capability may be used with QUESO and DREAM. 
That is, the user can specify field simulation data and field experiment data, 
and Dakota will interpolate and provide the proper residuals to the Bayesian calibration. 

If you are interested in these capabilities, contact the %Dakota developers 
at dakota-developers@development.sandia.gov.

Topics::	bayesian_calibration, package_queso
Examples::
Theory::
Faq::
See_Also::	
