Blurb::
Hierarchical approximations use corrected results from a low fidelity
model as an approximation to the results of a high fidelity "truth"
model.
Description::

Hierarchical approximations use corrected results from a low fidelity
model as an approximation to the results of a high fidelity "truth"
model. These approximations are also known as model hierarchy,
multifidelity, variable fidelity, and variable complexity
approximations. The required \c ordered_model_fidelities specification
points to a sequence of model specifications of varying fidelity,
ordered from lowest to highest fidelity.
The highest fidelity model provides the truth model, and each of the
lower fidelity alternatives provides different levels of approximation
at different levels of cost.

In multifidelity optimization, the search algorithm relies primarily
on the lower fidelity models, which are corrected for consistency with
higher fidelity models.  The higher fidelity models are used primarily
for verifying candidate steps based on solution of low fidelity
approximate subproblems and updating for low fidelity corrections.  In
multifidelity uncertainty quantification, resolution levels are
tailored across the ordered model hierarchy with fine resolution of
the lowest fidelity and then decreasing resolution for each level of
model discrepancy.

The \c correction specification specifies which
correction technique will be applied to the low fidelity results in
order to match the high fidelity results at one or more points. In the
hierarchical case (as compared to the global case), the \c correction
specification is required, since the omission of a correction
technique would effectively eliminate the purpose of the high fidelity
model. If it is desired to use a low fidelity model without
corrections, then a hierarchical approximation is not needed and a \c
single model should be used. Refer to \ref model-surrogate-global for
additional information on available correction approaches.


Topics::
Examples::
Theory::

<b> Multifidelity Surrogates </b>: Multifidelity modeling involves the
use of a low-fidelity physics-based model as a surrogate for the
original high-fidelity model. The low-fidelity model typically
involves a coarser mesh, looser convergence tolerances, reduced
element order, or omitted physics. It is a separate model in its own
right and does not require data from the high-fidelity model for
construction. Rather, the primary need for high-fidelity evaluations
is for defining correction functions that are applied to the
low-fidelity results.


<b> Multifidelity Surrogate Models </b>

A second type of surrogate is the {\em model hierarchy} type (also
called multifidelity, variable fidelity, variable complexity, etc.).
In this case, a model that is still physics-based but is of lower
fidelity (e.g., coarser discretization, reduced element order, looser
convergence tolerances, omitted physics) is used as the surrogate in
place of the high-fidelity model. For example, an inviscid,
incompressible Euler CFD model on a coarse discretization could be
used as a low-fidelity surrogate for a high-fidelity Navier-Stokes
model on a fine discretization.



Faq::
See_Also::	model-surrogate-global, model-surrogate-local, model-surrogate-multipoint, method-multilevel_sampling, method-polynomial_chaos, method-stoch_collocation, method-surrogate_based_local
