The directory Dakota/examples is designed to help users get started
using Dakota. The examples are grouped into the following directories:

examples/users: Examples found in the Dakota User's Manual. The
examples in the Tutorial chapter demonstrate application of various
Dakota methods to simple analytic functions via both direct and
system/fork interfaces to simulators. More in-depth examples of
performing specific studies with various Dakota methods, including
uncertainty quantification, least squares (calibration), and
optimization appear throughout the manual. Also advanced examples
such as optimization under uncertainty, second-order probability, and
surrogate-based optimization. 

examples/cantilever: Examples which all use the cantilever beam
example problem which are often used in training.

examples/advanced: Examples used in Advanced Topics training.

examples/script_interfaces: Examples of linking Dakota to various
applications. Of particular note is script_interfaces/generic/ which
contains a demonstration of linking Dakota to a mock finite element
analysis code through a black-box interface, as detailed in Chapter 16
of the Dakota User's Manual (Advanced Simulation Code Interfaces).
Here dprepro/aprepro is used to insert Dakota parameters into the
simulation input file, the simulation is run, and results are
extracted for return to Dakota. Includes both finite-difference and
analytic gradients.
Second example of note is an engineering example, which
utilizes a simulation of displacement, strain, and stress responses
to loading. It is meant as a proxy for a finite element code. The
included Dakota examples are list parameter studies, LHS, and
parameter calibration. The python and bash based driver scripts
illustrate some relatively complex handling of the "physics code"
responses.

examples/linked_interfaces: Guidance for directly
linking/close-coupling with or embedding Dakota with other software
tools. This directory will grow to include examples of Dakota's
"library mode" API, DLL service, ModelCenter, etc.

examples/parallelism: A range of Dakota + application parallelism
examples from massively serial (embarrassingly parallel) to parallel
evaluations of a parallel analysis code.

examples/platforms: Platform-specific guidance for getting started
with Dakota, including potentially helpful compilation and run-time
options.
