Blurb::
A model whos variables and responses are mapped to a submodel through the use of a sub-iterator?
Description::
Instead of appealing directly to a primary interface, a nested model
maps parameters to responses by executing a sub-iterator for each
evaluation of the nested model; the sub-iterator in turn operates on a
sub-model.  The sub-iterator responses may be combined with non-nested
contributions from an optional interface specification.

In the \c nested model case, a \c sub_method_pointer must be provided
in order to specify the nested iterator, and \c
optional_interface_pointer and \c optional_interface_responses_pointer
provide an optional group specification for the optional interface
portion of nested models (where \c optional_interface_pointer points
to the interface specification and \c
optional_interface_responses_pointer points to a responses
specification describing the data to be returned by this interface).
This interface is used to provide non-nested data, which is then
combined with data from the nested iterator using the \c
primary_response_mapping and \c secondary_response_mapping inputs (see
mapping discussion below).

Nested models may employ mappings for both the variable inputs to the
sub-model and the response outputs from the sub-model.  In the former
case, the \c primary_variable_mapping and \c
secondary_variable_mapping specifications are used to map from the
active top-level variables into the sub-model variables, and in the
latter case, the \c primary_response_mapping and \c
secondary_response_mapping specifications are used to compute the
sub-model response contributions to the top-level responses.  

For the variable mappings, the primary and secondary specifications
provide lists of strings which are used to target specific sub-model
variables and their sub-parameters, respectively.  The primary strings
are matched to continuous or discrete variable labels such as \c
'cdv_1' (either user-supplied or default labels), and the secondary
strings are matched to either real or integer random variable
distribution parameters such as \c 'mean' or \c 'num_trials' (the form
of the uncertain distribution parameter keyword that is appropriate
for a single variable instance) or continuous or discrete design/state
variable sub-parameters such as \c 'lower_bound' or \c 'upper_bound'
(again, keyword form appropriate for a single variable instance).  No
coercion of types is supported, so real-valued top-level variables
should map to either real-valued sub-model variables or real-valued
sub-parameters and integer-valued top-level variables should map to
either integer-valued sub-model variables or integer-valued
sub-parameters.  As long as these real versus integer constraints are
satisfied, mappings are free to cross variable types (design, aleatory
uncertain, epistemic uncertain, state) and domain types (continuous,
discrete).  Both \c primary_variable_mapping and \c
secondary_variable_mapping specifications are optional, which is
designed to support the following three possibilities:

-# If both primary and secondary variable mappings are specified,
   then an active top-level variable value will be inserted into the
   identified sub-parameter (the secondary mapping) for the identified 
   sub-model variable (the primary mapping).
-# If a primary mapping is specified but a secondary mapping is not,
   then an active top-level variable value will be inserted into the
   identified sub-model variable value (the primary mapping).
-# If a primary mapping is not specified (corresponding secondary 
   mappings, if specified, are ignored), then an active top-level 
   variable value will be inserted into a corresponding sub-model 
   variable, based on matching of variable types (e.g., top-level 
   and sub-model variable specifications both allocate a set of \c 
   'continuous_design' variables which are active at the top level).  
   Multiple sub-model variable types may be updated in this manner, 
   provided that they are all active in the top-level variables.
   Since there is a direct variable correspondence for these default
   insertions, sub-model bounds and labels are also updated from the
   top-level bounds and labels in order to eliminate the need for
   redundant input file specifications.  Thus, it is typical for the
   sub-model variables specification to only contain the minimal
   required information, such as the number of variables, for these
   insertion targets.  The sub-model must allocate enough space for
   each of the types that will accept default insertions, and the
   leading set of matching sub-model variables are updated (i.e., the
   sub-model may allocate more than needed and the trailing set will
   be unmodified).

These different variable mapping possibilities may be used in any
combination by employing empty strings (\c '') for particular omitted
mappings (the number of strings in user-supplied primary and secondary
variable mapping specifications must equal the total number of active
top-level variables, including both continuous and discrete types).
The ordering of the active variables is the same as shown in
dakota.input.summary and as presented in \ref VarCommands.

If inactive variables are present at the outer level, then the default
type 3 mapping is used for these variables; that is, outer loop
inactive variables are inserted into inner loop variables (active or
inactive) based on matching of variable types, top-level bounds and
labels are also propagated, the inner loop must allocate sufficient
space to receive the outer loop values, and the leading subset within
this inner loop allocation is updated.  This capability is important
for allowing nesting beyond two levels, since an active variable at the
outer-most loop may become inactive at the next lower level, but still
needs to be further propagated down to lower levels in the recursion.

For the response mappings, the primary and secondary specifications
provide real-valued multipliers to be applied to sub-iterator response
results so that the responses from the inner loop can be mapped into a
new set of responses at the outer loop.  For example, if the nested
model is being employed within a mixed aleatory-epistemic uncertainty
quantification, then aleatory statistics from the inner loop (such as
moments of the response) are mapped to the outer level, where minima
and maxima of these aleatory statistics are computed as functions of
the epistemic parameters. The response mapping defines a matrix which
scales the values from the inner loop and determines their position in
the outer loop response vector.  Each row of the mapping corresponds
to one outer loop response, where each column of the mapping
corresponds to a value from the inner loop.  Depending on the number
of responses and the particular attributes calculated on the inner
loop, there will be a vector of inner loop response values that need
to be accounted for in the mapping.  This vector of inner loop
response results is defined as follows for different sub-iterator types:

- optimization: the final objective function(s) and nonlinear constraints
- nonlinear least squares: the final least squares terms and nonlinear 
  constraints
- aleatory uncertainty quantification (UQ): for each response function, a mean 
  statistic, a standard deviation statistic, and all 
  probability/reliability/generalized reliability/response level results 
  for any user-specified \c response_levels, \c probability_levels, 
  \c reliability_levels, and/or \c gen_reliability_levels, in that order.
- epistemic and mixed aleatory/epistemic UQ using interval estimation
  methods: lower and upper interval bounds for each response function.
- epistemic and mixed aleatory/epistemic UQ using evidence methods: for 
  each response function, lower and upper interval bounds (belief and
  plausibility) for all probability/reliability/generalized
  reliability/response level results computed from any user-specified \c
  response_levels, \c probability_levels, \c reliability_levels, and/or 
  \c gen_reliability_levels, in that order.
- parameter studies and design of experiments: for optimization and
  least squares response data sets, the best solution found (lowest
  constraint violation if infeasible, lowest composite objective function
  if feasible). For generic response data sets, a best solution metric is 
  not defined, so the sub-iterator response vector is empty in this case.

The primary values map sub-iterator response results into top-level
objective functions, least squares terms, or generic response
functions, depending on the declared top-level response set.  The
secondary values map sub-iterator response results into top-level
nonlinear inequality and equality constraints.  


Nested models utilize a sub-iterator and a sub-model to perform a
complete iterative study as part of every evaluation of the model.
This sub-iteration accepts variables from the outer level, performs
the sub-level analysis, and computes a set of sub-level responses
which are passed back up to the outer level. As described in the
Models chapter of the Reference Manual~\cite{RefMan}, mappings are
employed for both the variable inputs to the sub-model and the
response outputs from the sub-model.

In the variable mapping case, primary and secondary variable
mapping specifications are used to map from the top-level variables
into the sub-model variables. These mappings support three
possibilities in any combination: (1) insertion of an active top-level
variable value into an identified sub-model distribution parameter for
an identified active sub-model variable, (2) insertion of an active
top-level variable value into an identified active sub-model variable
value, and (3) addition of an active top-level variable value as an
inactive sub-model variable, augmenting the active sub-model
variables.

In the response mapping case, primary and secondary response
mapping specifications are used to map from the sub-model responses
back to the top-level responses. These specifications provide
real-valued multipliers that are applied to the sub-iterator response
results to define the outer level response set. These nested data
results may be combined with non-nested data through use of the 
``optional interface'' component within nested models.

The nested model constructs admit a wide variety of multi-iterator,
multi-model solution approaches. For example, optimization within
optimization (for hierarchical multidisciplinary optimization),
uncertainty quantification within uncertainty quantification (for
second-order probability), uncertainty quantification within
optimization (for optimization under uncertainty), and optimization
within uncertainty quantification (for uncertainty of optima) are all
supported, with and without surrogate model indirection. Several
examples of nested model usage are provided in
Chapter~\ref{adv_models}, most notably mixed epistemic-aleatory UQ in
Section~\ref{adv_models:mixed_uq}, optimization under uncertainty
(OUU) in Section~\ref{adv_models:ouu}, and surrogate-based UQ in
Section~\ref{adv_models:sbuq}.


Topics::	not_yet_reviewed
Examples::
An example of variable and response mappings is provided below:
\verbatim
primary_variable_mapping   = ''  ''  'X'     'Y'
secondary_variable_mapping = ''  ''  'mean'  'mean'
primary_response_mapping   = 1. 0. 0. 0. 0. 0. 0. 0. 0.
secondary_response_mapping = 0. 0. 0. 1. 3. 0. 0. 0. 0.
                             0. 0. 0. 0. 0. 0. 1. 3. 0.
\endverbatim

The variable mappings correspond to 4 top-level variables, the first
two of which employ the default mappings from active top-level
variables to sub-model variables of the same type (option 3 above) and
the latter two of which are inserted into the mean distribution
parameters of sub-model variables \c 'X' and \c 'Y' (option 1 above).
The response mappings define a 3 by 9 matrix corresponding to 9 inner
loop response attributes and 3 outer loop response functions (one
primary response function and 2 secondary functions, such as one
objective and two constraints).  Each row of the response mapping is a
vector which is multiplied (i.e, with a dot-product) against the 9
sub-iterator values to determine the outer loop function.  Consider a
UQ example with 3 response functions, each providing a mean, a
standard deviation, and one level mapping (if no level mappings are
specified, the responses would only have a mean and standard
deviation).  The primary response mapping can be seen to extract the
first value from the inner loop, which would correspond to the mean of
the first response function.  This mapped sub-iterator response
becomes a single objective function, least squares term, or generic
response function at the outer level, as dictated by the top-level
response specification.  The secondary response mapping maps the
fourth sub-iterator response function plus 3 times the fifth
sub-iterator response function (mean plus 3 standard deviations) into
one top-level nonlinear constraint and the seventh sub-iterator
response function plus 3 times the eighth sub-iterator response
function (mean plus 3 standard deviations) into another top-level
nonlinear constraint, where these top-level nonlinear constraints may
be inequality or equality, as dictated by the top-level response
specification.  Note that a common case is for each sub-iterator
response to be mapped to a unique outer loop response (for example, in
the nested UQ case where one wants to determine an interval on each
inner loop statistic).  In these simple cases, the response mapping
would define an identity matrix.  <!-- That is, the primary response
mapping will have N rows and N columns corresponding to the N
sub-iterator response values, and the mapping matrix will have a value
of one along the diagonal and zeros elsewhere. -->


Theory::	problem
Faq::
See_Also::	model-single, model-surrogate 
