Blurb::
Specify a variable that allows real numbers within a set
Description::
In addition to continuous and discrete aleatory probability
distributions, %Dakota provides support for continuous and discrete
epistemic uncertainties through its continuous interval, discrete
interval, and discrete set specifications. Interval-based variables do
not represent probability distributions. In the case of continuous
intervals, they can specify a single interval per variable which may
be used in interval analysis, where the goal is to determine the
interval bounds on the output corresponding to the interval bounds on
the input. More detailed continuous interval representations can
specify a set of belief structures based on intervals that may be
contiguous, overlapping, or disjoint. This is used in specifying the
inputs necessary for an epistemic uncertainty analysis using
Dempster-Shafer theory of evidence. In the discrete case, interval
variables may be used to specify categorical choices which are
epistemic. For example, if we have three possible forms for a physics
model (model 1, 2, or 3) and there is epistemic uncertainty about
which one is correct, a discrete uncertain interval or a discrete set
may be used to represent this type of uncertainty.

Discrete variables may be used to represent things like epistemic model form
uncertainty, as mentioned above. For example, if one wants to analyze
the effect of model 1 vs. model 2 vs. model 3 in an epistemic analysis
(either an interval analysis or a Dempster-Shafer evidence theory
analysis), one can use a discrete epistemic variable to represent the
uncertainty in the model form. There are three types of discrete
epistemic variables, similar to discrete design and discrete state
types: a discrete interval variable that may take any integer value
within bounds (e.g., [1, 4], allowing values of 1, 2, 3, or 4); a
discrete uncertain set of integers, in which the discrete value may
take any value within the integer set (for example, the set may be
defined as 1, 2, and 4); and a discrete uncertain set of reals, in
which the discrete variable may take any value defined within the real
set (for example, a parameter may have two allowable real values,
3.285 or 4.79). The following Tables \ref T7d27 "7.27" through \ref
T7d29 "7.29" summarize the required and optional specifications for
each discrete epistemic variable subtype. Note that, relative to the
discrete design and discrete state specifications, discrete epistemic
specifications add interval or set probabilities while removing the
notion of an initial value.

How is this different from a pmf histogram?

Topics::	problem, discrete_variable, uncertain_variable, not_yet_reviewed
Examples::
Theory::
Faq::
See_Also::	
