Epistemic uncertainty is also referred to as subjective uncertainty,
reducible uncertainty, model form uncertainty, or uncertainty due to
lack of knowledge.  Examples of epistemic uncertainty are little or no
experimental data for an unknown physical parameter, or the existence
of complex physics or behavior that is not included in the simulation
model of a system. Epistemic uncertainty can be modeled
probabilistically but is often modeled using non-probabilistic
approaches such as interval propagation, evidence theory, possibility
theory, information gap theory, etc.  In %Dakota, epistemic uncertainty
analysis is performed using interval analysis or Dempster-Shafer
theory of evidence.  Epistemic (or mixed aleatory-epistemic)
uncertainty may also be propagated through the use of the \ref
MethodNonDMC, although in this case, the output statistics are limited
to response intervals (any epistemic component suppresses all
probabilistic results).  Mixed uncertainty can also be addressed
through use of nested UQ (refer to the Users Manual 
[\ref UsersMan "Adams et al., 2010"] for %NestedModel
discussion and examples); in this case, epistemic and aleatory
analyses can be segregated and intervals on probabilistic results can
be reported.  A subtle distinction exists between \c sampling for
epistemic intervals and the \c lhs option of \c
global_interval_est: the former allows mixed aleatory-epistemic
uncertainty within a single level, whereas the latter supports only
epistemic variables and relies on nesting to address mixed
uncertainty.  In each of these cases, the \ref VarCEUV_Interval
specification is used to describe the epistemic uncertainty using
either simple intervals or basic probability assignments.
Note that for mixed UQ problems with both aleatory and epistemic 
variables, if the user defines the epistemic variables as intervals 
and aleatory variables as probability distribution types, 
the method \c sampling (in a simple, single-level study) will 
result in intervals only on the output.  Although the aleatory variables 
will be sampled according to their distributions, the output will only be 
reported as an interval given the presence of interval variables.  
There is also the option to perform nested sampling, where one 
separates the epistemic and aleatory uncertain variables, samples 
over epistemic variables in the outer loop and then samples the 
aleatory variables in the inner llop, resulting in intervals on statistics. 
The calculation of intervals on statistics can also be performed 
by using nested approaches with interval estimation or evidence methods 
in the outer loop and aleatory UQ methods on the 
inner loop such as stochastic expansion or reliability methods. 
More detail about these "intervals on statistics" approaches 
can be found in [\ref Eldred2009 "Eldred and Swiler, 2009"] 
