ATTENTION !!!

Effective 11 May 1994, there are big changes to the status of the
files in this directory.  All of the other readme's in here make
reference to OS/2 support by Physical Dynamics, offer an OS/2 driver
for sale for $15, etc.

All of that has been overtaken by events.

I no longer use OS/2 (Linux now).  After a long period of waffling, I
have finally opted to divest myself of any involvement in the OS/2
driver/support issues of PLplot.

Effective now, the OS/2 driver and support program pmserv, are now
officially deeded to the PLplot project, and may be used without fee
or other contact with me.

However, they are rusty.  The entire OS/2 support thing needs to be
taken over by someone who uses PLplot and OS/2 themselves.  I am
willing to advise in this process.

What I would like to see, ultimately, is something along these lines:

An official OS/2 PLplot maintainer who:
	fixes the makefile setup to build PLplot on OS/2 using some 
		currently popular compiler (gcc/emx, gcc2, whatever,
		maybe even the IBM C set, I don't care).
	fix the makefile setup to use the same system as that used for
		the unix systems.  Now that gmake is on OS/2, this
		shouldn't be a big deal.  Someone just has to do it.
		(configure, m4, all that).
	fixes the os2pm driver.  The one in the pmserv directory is
		the last one I used.  That was on OS/2 1.3.  Maurice 
		has munged the one up 
		in ../../drivers quite a bit, without testing it.
		I have no idea how to sync these, someone who gives
		a flip needs to resolve the issue.
	os2pm.c should be in the drivers directory, and should be 
		integrated into PLplot just like all the other
		drivers.  Once done, the one here should be removed.
	pmserv should be fixed to work with OS/2 2.x, and integrated
		into the makefile mentioned above.  There is now a
		little hook in makefile.m4 for including system
		specific targets in the makefile.  See cf_linux.m4 for
		an example.  Someone needs to make a cf_os2.m4 which
		includes targets for buiding pmserv, etc.
	Completely new set of OS/2 readme files.  The ones that are in
		here now I wrote 3 years ago, and they are all largely
		irrelevant by now.
	Fix the fortran support to work with some popular fortran
		system.  Perhaps it could be selectable between xyz
		corp Fortran, and f2c, which I believe is now
		available on OS/2 via emx/gcc or something like that.

If you are willing to assume responsibility for PLplot on the OS/2
platform, please let us know.  I am willing to give advice, explain
what I can remember of the pipe-based os2pm/pmserv thing, sell you
some old OS/2 prgramming guides I have, whatever.  And if you can come
up with a complete replacement for this driectory, that would be
great.  We will work with you to make sure the PLplot releases have
working support on OS/2.  But we need a point of contact/activism.  If
yu're interested, please let us know.

Geoffrey Furnish		(Old OS/2 maintainer, out of the business).
furnish@dino.ph.utexas.edu

Maurice LeBrun			(Overall PLplot release coordinator).
mjl@dino.ph.utexas.edu


August 1996

SOME work was done now, but just in a quick and dirty way to get things
working (see readme.os2). There is still need for someone who meets
the points mentioned above. 

Thorsten Feiweier
thorsten@fuj.physik.uni-dortmund.de
